gh-132661: Document t-strings and `templatelib` (#135229)
python/cpython: Doc/reference/lexical_analysis.rst

   single: f'; formatted string literal
   single: f"; formatted string literal

> A string literal with ``f`` or ``F`` in its prefix is a
> :dfn:`formatted string literal`; see :ref:`f-strings`.  The ``f`` may be
> combined with ``r``, but not with ``b`` or ``u``, therefore raw

Reviewer: unrelated changes; please revert. Also, arguably in lexical analysis we care about the character *qua* character.
```suggestion
A string literal with ``'f'`` or ``'F'`` in its prefix is a
:dfn:`formatted string literal`; see :ref:`f-strings`.  The ``'f'`` may be
combined with ``'r'``, but not with ``'b'`` or ``'u'``, therefore raw
```

.. versionadded:: 3.6

A :dfn:`formatted string literal` or :dfn:`f-string` is a string literal

> that is prefixed with ``f`` or ``F``.  These strings may contain

Reviewer: likewise
```suggestion
that is prefixed with ``'f'`` or ``'F'``.  These strings may contain
```

and :meth:`str.format`, which uses a related format string mechanism.

.. _t-strings:
.. _template-string-literals:

t-strings
---------

.. versionadded:: 3.14

A :dfn:`template string literal` or :dfn:`t-string` is a string literal
that is prefixed with ``'t'`` or ``'T'``.  These strings follow the same
syntax and evaluation rules as `formatted string literals <f-strings>`_, with
the following differences:

> - Rather than evaluating to a `str` object, t-strings evaluate to a

Reviewer 2: Lint fix, either use double backticks (this is RST not MD):
```suggestion
- Rather than evaluating to a ``str`` object, t-strings evaluate to a
```
Or create link:
```suggestion
- Rather than evaluating to a :class:`str` object, t-strings evaluate to a
```

>   `Template` object from the :mod:`string.templatelib` module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :class:`~string.templatelib.Template` object from the :mod:`string.templatelib` module.
```

- Evaluated expressions are *not* formatted using the
  :func:`format` protocol; :meth:`~object.__format__` is *not* invoked. Instead,
  the expressions are evaluated and a new `Interpolation` object (also from the
  :mod:`string.templatelib` module) is created, which contains the evaluated
  value of the expression. That `Interpolation` object is found in the containing

>   `Template`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the expressions are evaluated and a new :class:`~string.templatelib.Interpolation` object (also from the
  :mod:`string.templatelib` module) is created, which contains the evaluated
  value of the expression. That :class:`~string.templatelib.Interpolation` object is found in the containing
  :class:`~string.templatelib.Template`.
```

and :meth:`str.format`, which uses a related format string mechanism.

.. _t-strings:
.. _template-string-literals:

t-strings
---------

.. versionadded:: 3.14

A :dfn:`template string literal` or :dfn:`t-string` is a string literal
that is prefixed with ``'t'`` or ``'T'``.  These strings follow the same
syntax and evaluation rules as :ref:`formatted string literals <f-strings>`, with
the following differences:

- Rather than evaluating to a ``str`` object, t-strings evaluate to a
  :class:`~string.templatelib.Template` object from the
  :mod:`string.templatelib` module.

- The :func:`format` protocol is not used. Instead, the format specifier and
  conversions (if any) are passed to a new :class:`~string.templatelib.Interpolation`
  object that is created for each evaluated expression. It is up to code that
  processes the resulting :class:`~string.templatelib.Template` object to
  decide how to handle format specifiers and conversions.

> - Format specifiers containing nested replacement fields are evaluated eagerly,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Format specifiers containing nested replacement fields are evaluated eagerly and converted to a string,
```

It might be beneficial to clarify how format specifiers are actually passed to the interpolation.

Author: Yeah that’s a good point. Will do!

and :meth:`str.format`, which uses a related format string mechanism.

.. _t-strings:
.. _template-string-literals:

t-strings
---------

.. versionadded:: 3.14

A :dfn:`template string literal` or :dfn:`t-string` is a string literal

> that is prefixed with ``t`` or ``T``.  These strings follow the same

Reviewer: Per the above, I'd keep the quotation marks here, we're in *lexical analysis*.
```suggestion
that is prefixed with ``'t'`` or ``'T'``.  These strings follow the same
```

> that is prefixed with ``'t'`` or ``'T'``.  These strings follow the same

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that is prefixed with ``t`` or ``T``.  These strings follow the same
```

Author: Fixed this and a few equivalents for `f`/`F` in the same docs

syntax and evaluation rules as :ref:`formatted string literals <f-strings>`, with
the following differences:

> - Rather than evaluating to a ``str`` object, t-strings evaluate to a
>   :class:`~string.templatelib.Template` object from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Rather than evaluating to a ``str`` object, template string literals evaluate
  to a :class:`~string.templatelib.Template` object from the
```

  :mod:`string.templatelib` module.

> - The :func:`format` protocol is not used. Instead, the format specifier and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The :func:`format` protocol is not used. Instead, the format specifier and
```

  conversions (if any) are passed to a new :class:`~string.templatelib.Interpolation`
  object that is created for each evaluated expression. It is up to code that
  processes the resulting :class:`~string.templatelib.Template` object to
  decide how to handle format specifiers and conversions.

> - Format specifiers containing nested replacement fields are evaluated eagerly,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Format specifiers containing nested replacement fields are evaluated eagerly,
```

  prior to being passed to the :class:`~string.templatelib.Interpolation` object.
  For instance, an interpolation of the form ``{amount:.{precision}f}`` will
  evaluate the expression ``{precision}`` before setting the ``format_spec``

>   attribute of the resulting :class:`!Interpolation` object; if ``precision``
>   is (for example) ``2``, the resulting format specifier will be ``'.2f'``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  attribute of the resulting :class:`!Interpolation` object.
  For example, if ``precision`` is ``2``, the resulting format specifier
  will be ``'.2f'``.
```

> - When the equal sign ``'='`` is provided in an interpolation expression, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When the equals sign ``'='`` is provided in an interpolation expression, the
```

  resulting :class:`~string.templatelib.Template` object will have the expression
  text along with a ``'='`` character placed in its
  :attr:`~string.templatelib.Template.strings` attribute. The
  :attr:`~string.templatelib.Template.interpolations` attribute will also
  contain an ``Interpolation`` instance for the expression. By default, the
  :attr:`~string.templatelib.Interpolation.conversion` attribute will be set to

>   ``'r'`` (i.e. :func:`repr`), unless there is a conversion explicitly specified

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ``'r'`` (that is, :func:`repr`), unless there is a conversion explicitly specified
```

Either of these parts, but not both, can be empty. For example::

>    1.   # (equivalent to 10.0)

Reviewer 4: This is incorrect (and unrelated).
```suggestion
   10.  # (equivalent to 10.0)
```
